
1.1 defining capitalism

In Marx's critique of political economy, he is primarily concerned with the economic structure of capitalist society, but that is not to say that the economic factor is the singular, dominating factor (it just accounts for all contingencies of domination. i think he says this in theses on feurbach or one of hiss letters idk)

Class society is a controversial matter, and taboo to insinuate the existence of. 

[[exploitation]]

capitalism's system of exploitation distinguishes itself from that of previous historical periods by:

1. in *pre-capitalist societies*, exploitation rests upon a relationship of **personal domination and dependency.** 
   *under capitalism*, wage-laborers are **formally free, formally equal**, enter into a **contractual relationship** (see [[contract theory]]), and there is no **personal relation**.
2. in *pre-capitalist societies*, the **exploitation of the dominated class serves the consumption of the ruling class**. wealth used for edification or for the public, or for war. production **directly served the fulfillment of wants.** wealth was rarely used to enlarge the basis of exploitation. 
   *under capitalism*, **production is for the sake of increasing the capacity to produce**. production for productions sake, it is for an insaitable drive in extracting surplus-value. wealth is continuously invested anew to **enlarge the basis of exploitation.** the comfort of the capitalist is the byproduct of the CMP but not its goal.

capital's insatiable need for constant valorization is not a product of individual insanity but a *sine qua non* for capital's existence.
if they are not constantly modernizing, they will be steamrolled by their competitors who producer cheaper or better products. it's not a moral failure, but necessary for survival.

[[capital]]

interest-bearing and merchant capital has existed in all societies where money/exchange existed, but it was subordinate in it's role (hence the term [[mercantile exchange]])
capitalism is profit-oriented, not needs-oriented by nature.