capitalism has had to transform relations between individuals in order to exist
presented as a reality, second nature to people.
	myth: merchants carefully accumulated savings, hedonists and incompetent squandered them.

reality, a dissolution of feudal society: masses of workers forced from communal land, capitalists who buy their labor conditions were forced into existence via bloody legislation.

masses of workers, proletarians: nothing but labor power, naked before capital.

differ from artisans who own their tools and perform their own labor.

17th century - enclosure movement, divison of land.

means of production do not create capital, proletariat does.

to develop CMP, money and commodities had to be transformed into capital, from antediluvian forms:
	agricultural revolution created domestic market for industrial products. first capitalist class.
	merchant's capital, usurers capital - possessed accumulations of money that can be transformed into industrial capital.

capital socialized exchange before socializing labor.
	means of production in centralized locations, product of merchant's capital.

capital is valorized through purchase of labor power.
to purchase more labor power requires expansion of means of production and increase of productivity of labor.
labor is socialized as consequence.

three phases in evolution of division of labor since mid 14th century:
1. simple cooperation
2. manufacture
3. large-scale industry

when manufacture dominates CMP, capitalist era begins.

increase in use of machinery -> development of relative surplus-value. increased exploitation, valorization.

industrial revolution, 18th century: machines make use of workers.

machines allow for unlimited labor productivity, man eliminated from productive process.

progress in branches connected: advancement in sciences -> new dyes for yarns

potential for communism after industrial revolution: 
	permanent reduction in necessary labor time now a possibility.
	conditions for society with collectivized, socialized production and free development of the individual.
for this potential to be realized, proletariat must supercede capital.

contradiction between:
- creation of maximum surplus value
- unlimited development of productive forces, crises of overproduction.

