all of this is described during "average social conditions of production", reality is more complicated..

commodity: object, service, produced to be exchanged.

dual character of commodity: use value and exchange value.

use-value: why a person desires or needs to buy a commodity.

capitalist mode of production (CMP): commodities reign. new historical development, first appear in basic mercantile exchange.

productive consumption: commodities consumed during the productive process.

in communism, exchange value will be abolished because markets will be abolished, therefore commodities etc.

two commodities can have the same value by the necessary labor they share.
	abstract labor (aka general labor): this necessary labor shared.
	exchange-value: determined by abstract labor.

concrete labor: how a commodity is made, sewing a shirt, pressing pulp to make paper, etc.

socially necessary labor time: abstract labor that determines the exchange value of a commodity. discovered via competition.

commodity fetishism: dual-nature of commodity appears natural to consumer. example of reification.

reification: something abstract "made real" by social acceptance.  

labor-power is power. not a substance or matter. synonymous with labor-capacity.
	unique as a commodity, it's use-value is that it produces more value than what is required to reproduce itself.
	this is only possible because the prole has nothing to exchange for his means of subsistence other than his labor.

exchange value of labor determined by socially necessary labor time required to reproduce it.
	example of this socially necessary labor time being driven down is by changing eating habits of masses, lowering the cost of their upkeep: potatoes, fortified breakfast cereals, fast food etc.

surplus-value: exploit labor-power for more labor-time than what is required for it's reproduction.
surplus labor: the appropriated extra labor-time from the worker, by making him work longer than what is socially necessary. purely bonus unpaid labor.

reduction of working day important to proletarian struggle: less time spent producing surplus-value.
	theory is not a moral condemnation of the individual capitalists but a social reality.
	ethics do not make a difference to the necessary power dynamic (sine qua non) for capitalism's function.

wage: concrete monetary expression (or price) of the exchange-value of labor-power.

market prices affected by supply and demand 

we are no longer dealing with "average social conditions of production" these vary throughout history and in reality.

in CMP market prices gravitate around prices of production.
	prices of production: equalization of rates of profit between large masses of capital.
		ruled by the movement of value.

crises: no demand for commodities, generalized fall in prices (deflation), devaluation via overproduction.

industrial reserve army: surplus population intended to constantly drive down wages.

constant capital: elements that make up the means of production: machines, energy materials etc.
	defined as constant because these elements transfer their value to products in the production process.
	does not create new value, only transfers existing value.

variable capital: capital advanced to pay back wages. doesn't give back a consistent value. exchanged for labor power.

fixed capital: part of constant capital. value transferred little by little via amortization.

circulating capital: part of constant capital **(this definition seems unfinished)**

necessary labor: part of working day paid for, value of wages paid to prole. 
	corresponds to variable capital.

surplus labor: surplus value produced by proles, unpaid part of working day.

organic composition of capital: c/v, constant capital always grows significantly as the result of a mass of wages.

in its takeover of production, capital begins by the lengthening of the working day: production of absolute surplus value.

first rise in productivity, concentration of labor, power in one place. doesn't increase portion of unpaid labor however.

machinery allowed capital to surpass fixations of physical, cultural, technical limitations that wouldn't allow for accumulation of infinite surplus-value.
	overcomes this fixation by reducing value of labor power via productivity.

relative surplus-value: value obtained through reduction of value of labor power, changes the proportion of necessary and surplus labor.

productive labor: produces surplus-value for capital.

proletariat is the only class in CMP exploited because it is the only class that produces surplus. labor exchanged for capital, that produces surplus, is productive.

unproductive labor classes grow more and more as necessary labor reduced and proletarian class displaced by machinery.
unproductive labor can produce value, just not surplus value.

similar to confusion in definition of industrial capital: not just the industrial branch but agriculture and services.

common misconceptions about productive/unproductive labor:
1. not all wage labor is productive.
2. not all wage labor that produces concrete objects is productive.
3. not all manual labor is productive.
4. production of socially useful objects is not productive labor.
5. income does not differentiate class: you can be a prole and make more than a member of the middle class e.g. artist who sells commissions makes less than factory worker.

evaluation of evolution of CMP: formal and real subsumption of labor.

formal subsumption of labor (AKA formal domination): large centralized concentration of labor power. labor and production processes similar to that of handicraft.
	origin of CMP. technology not specific to CMP.
	labor process still unchanged by CMP, just submitted to purposes of capital (valorization.) social relation has changed. 
	simple co-operation, no division of labor for further valorization of value has yet occurred.
	the only way surplus value may be extracted is through increase of working day, or production of absolute surplus value.
	workers are only chained to their instruments.

real subsumption of labor: when men work differently so valorization via relative surplus value may occur. capital *really* subsumes labor.
	real subsumption succeeds formal subsumption. now labor is specific to CMP.
	relative surplus value thrives, increase in exploitation.
	CMP has now fully seized all branches of production for valorization.