One form of [[commodity producing labor]].
Has a [[commodity producing labor |two fold nature]] with [[concrete labor]], which is the expenditure of human energy in a *determined* form. Thus it is the expenditure of human energy in a *undetermined* form. [^1]

It is **qualitative** in nature, it is not a definition intended to denote an quality of different labor expenditures. It creates value, but cannot be used for the measure of equivalents (that is the purpose of defining [[socially necessary labor time]].)[^2][^3]
Yes, it refers to a physiological sense, but this is a presupposition, not a definition.[^4] 

It is [[reification|reified]] into commodities. This is an important distinction, because commodities are **qualitatively equal** through abstract labor, not quantitatively. It is **value-producing labor.**[^5][^6]

It is not a visible, tangible thing, only a definition of a phenomenon. It is a "real abstraction". [^7]

Exchange perfects, finishes, reifies this "real abstraction". [^8]


[^1]: Rubin, I.I. “Essays on Marx’s Theory of Value.” _I.I. Rubin Essays on Marx’s Theory of Value_, www.marxists.org/archive/rubin/value/ch14.htm.  "And, in concluding, Marx stresses this idea still more sharply: 'On the one hand all labor is, speaking physiologically, an expenditure of human labor-power, and in its character of identical abstract human labor, it creates and forms the value of commodities. On the other hand, all labor is the expenditure of human labor-power in a special form and with a definite aim, and in this, its character of concrete useful labor, it produces use-values.'"
[^2]: ibid.  "...the characteristics of abstract labor do not in any way coincide with a physiological equality of different labor expenditures.", "Whoever wants to maintain Marx's well-known statement that abstract labor creates value and is expressed in value, must renounce the physiological concept of abstract labor. But this does not mean that we deny the obvious fact that in every social form of economy the working activity of people is carried out through the expenditure of physiological energy. Physiological labor is the presupposition of abstract labor in the sense that one cannot speak of abstract labor if there is no expenditure of physiological energy on the part of people. But this expenditure of physiological energy remains precisely a presupposition, and not the object of our analysis."
[^3]: ibid. "To grasp Marx's theory of abstract labor accurately, we cannot for a minute forget that Marx puts the concept of abstract labor into inseparable connection with the concept of value. Abstract labor "creates" value, it is the "content" or "substance" of value. Marx's task was (as we have frequently noted) not to reduce value analytically to abstract labor, but to derive value dialectically from abstract labor."
[^4]: Heinrich, Introduction, pg. 48. "As values, the commodities are *qualitatively equal*; therefore the various acts of labor that produce values must have the status of qualitatively equal human labor. Carpentry does not produce value as carpentry (as carpentry, it produces a chair); rather, it produces value as human labor, whose product is exchanged with other products of human labor. So carpentry produces value precisely as labor *abstracted from its concrete manifestation as carpentry*. Marx therefore speaks of value-producing labor as “abstract labor.”
[^5]: ibid. pg. 49. "As 'crystals' of abstract labor, commodities are 'values.' Marx therefore describes abstract labor as the 'value-forming substance' or as the 'substance of value.'"
[^6]: ibid. "Abstract labor is not visible, only a particular concrete labor is visible, just as the concept of 'tree' isn’t visible: I'm only capable of perceiving a concrete botanical plant [...] But in the case of abstract labor, we are not dealing with such a “mental abstraction” but with a “real abstraction,” by which we mean an abstraction that is carried out in the actual behavior of humans, regardless of whether they are aware of it."
[^7]: ibid. pg. 50 "Accordingly, it is exchange, that consummates the abstraction that underlies abstract labor (independent of whether the people engaged in exchange are aware of this abstraction)."
