https://www.quinterna.org/lingue/english/articles_en/the_social_brain.htm

Since the Pre-Socratics, the concept of a social brain or collective consciousness has been considered.
The goal shouldn't be isolated "communist" communes that relegate the [[law of value]] of value to the external world. Humans should no longer to aim to produce as individuals.
If everything worked like a factory, there would be no capitalism at all.
An unconscious process has the bourgeois accept the law of value (on an unidentified level resembling intuition). Fully socialized labor emerges as a threat to the current structure of society (the superstructure).
Leroi-Gourhan is an anthropologist who studied invariant-based transformation of psychological forms.
Although he uses evolutionistic terminology, he underlines the greatest contradiction in human evolution: the existence of a social hive-mind, and the gap between it and the biological individual being. Brain development now happens on a social level, we articulate ourselves like bees...
Information is transferred from parent to child in a social way. The mnemonic capacity continuously expands despite the biological brain's development remaining relatively the same over for the past 300,000 years (since Neanderthals).
Social development allows memory to expand outside biological capacity.

Language and writing are dependent on mnemonic development, but the sophistication of those two (and their spread) are in turn dependent on the development of the technology of their time.
For example, no longer do we carve letters into clay tablets that break and scatter into the earth, now we may mass manufacture books with copies spread about the world. Our collective memory is stronger than ever thanks to advancements of information technology.
Exteriorizaitons of human life into inert objects.
Writing was not "invented" but introduced as a step of social maturity.
Guilds would teach apprentices without any kind of writings.
The unification of knowledge was sporadically achieved and is a modern achievement.
The earliest examples of transcriptions that we have consistent of inventory lists, handling of objects, transfers of ownership etc.
Czechoslovakia, bone notches.
The alphabet serves as the greatest mnemonic prothesis for humanity, being able to compose text in an infinite amount of ways.
Book-keeping before literature-- humanity needed the resources for social organization before it could conceive an artistic purpose for transcription of poems and stories.
History is a transitory possession of the classes who write it (most often, the ruling).
Encyclopedias and dictionaries were enabled by being built over fragmented memory, their emergence allowed for the flourishing of the Enlightenment, where men were able to trade ideas previously inaccessible by language and geography.
Cams, as a mechanism, have been responsible for enabling the emergence of washing machines, fuel combustion, many others.

Decartes thought men were perfect machines,
Vaucanson designed a "digesting duck" to show the possibility of automation.

The "progress" of civilization should not be described as a poisoning, but mankind's potential to liberate itself from slavery from the increasing importance of the social power of labor. This progress stems from social evolution, not biological, unlike other organizing specials.

Encyclopedias represent the culmination of fragments of knowledge, collected from individuals both dead and living.

When these historical accumulations of knowledge present themselves, they retain a class character, with information being dictated by the needs of the mode of production at the time.

The concept of "will" is an idealist one. (I think Schopenhauer but idk)
The net furthers the possibility for a party to emerge by organic means, not as a specific organization, but one generated by the *Gemeinwesen*.

> _This_ party is not just to be intended as a specific organisation to direct the fight against the opposing classes, but it has to be meant as the political organ of the last revolutionary class in history, the one that will have the duty to stop the succession of class societies. When its historical duty will be accomplished, the revolutionary party will extinguish itself together with the State. Things would be different if we considered this "party" as the specific future organ that will shape itself on the previously developed social intelligence, the one that will have the duty to finally harmonize men with that nature they are a part of. In this sense _the party never dies: it is handed over through invariants and transformations, and it always represents a collective memory; a class memory at first, and then the memory of the species_.

